# py-playlist

Algorithmic playlist generation using
[MusicBrainz](https://musicbrainz.org/) data. 

This is a repository of different scripts that created playlists for
a radio show on [KDIC 88.5 FM](http://kdic.grinnell.edu/).
Each python file beginning with "week" is an executable program that
will generate a playlist based on different algorithmic constraints. 
A short description of each is provided in this readme, but read the
code to find out how it works internally.
All other python files (those that don't start with "week") are
utility scripts for the playlist scripts.

## Installation

First, clone the repository and ```cd``` into it

    git clone https://github.com/gmareske/py-playlist
	cd py-playlist

Next, install the requirements (recommended to do in a virtual
environment). All code files require Python 3.

	pip install -r requirements.txt
	
After that everything should be all set, so go ahead and run any of
the files.

    python3 week*.py
	
## Summary of Programs

### week1.py

Week one follows a chain of collaborating artists. It takes in a seed
artist, finds a collaboration song between the seed artist and some
new other artist, and adds that song to the playlist. The process is
repeated, selected the new artist as the seed every time. 

My hypothesis was that by following different artists in a [Six
Degrees of Kevin
Bacon](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Six_Degrees_of_Kevin_Bacon)
style, there would be a smooth progression between different genres. 
This sometimes held true, but since the algorithm decides pathways
between artists randomly, it often ends up generating shorter
playlists that don't have much meaning.
See ```week1-example.txt``` for an awesome example of a progression between
genres, generated by ```week1.py```.

## Contributing

This repository is not open to contributions, and used mostly as a
backup for the radio show code. Feel free to fork and play with the
code, and if you get an especially cool playlist out of it then let me know!

## Authors

* **Griffin Mareske** - [gmareske](https://github.com/gmareske)

## License

MIT. Included in the repository.
